*This is a reproduction project as part of the MSR course 2021/22 at UniKo, CS department, SoftLang Team*

*This repositories fork from https://github.com/gorjatschev/applying-apis for MSR 2021/22 Coursework*

# Team
Team: Mike
* Prayuth Patumcharoenpol
* Jorge Gavilan

# Baseline study

## Aspect of the reproduction project
Reproduction of the visualization stage of the empirical study,  in which a representation of the applied API categorization is generated using treemaps for better understanding of the results.

## Input data
The CSV file, which has been pre-processed by previous procedure (analyze the data), contains a list of APIs and corresponding APIs categories and the following data
 > filePath, packageName, className, methodName, line, column, javaParserTypeOfElement, usedClassOfElement, isAPIClass, api, mcrCategories, mcrTags
 
The original CSV file can be found in the project’s [repo](https://github.com/gorjatschev/applying-apis/tree/main/output).



## Output data
* Treemaps with the hierarchical structure and size of abstractions
* Colorized APIs and API categories

# Finding of replication

## Process delta

We believe that the process to create visualization is identical to the thesis since we reiled on the external library (plotly) to create the visualization. In addition, the data we used is identical to the thesis itself, hence the process should not be distinct.

## Output delta

Since the data used to generate the visualizations was the same used in the original [Gorjatschev21] work, the results did not present major differences
The output data is identical only different in the figure structure which we don't consider relevant.
We expect to be able to analyze a significant delta when processing the data generated by other teams which we will be able to compare then with the results obtained in this stage.


# Implementation of replication

This replication uses the code from [Gorjatschev21 repository](https://github.com/gorjatschev/applying-apis) as a baseline. Then we removed unnecessary files used for other parts different from visualization and restructured the project. After that, we installed all software requirements and we adjusted the application configuration to run according to requirements.

## Hardware requirements
* Operating system: Linux (recommended Ubuntu 16.04 or higher), MacOS, or Windows 7 to 10.
* Memory: At least 4GB RAM (8GB preferable)

## Software requirements
* Java 11 
* Python 3.9.6 (plotly>=5.1.0, pyspark>=3.1.2)
* kaleido (python module for image export)

## Validation
By comparing the visualization results with the input data 
As for the execution of the code, since we could not compare the runtime data ( data when code is running ) with the thesis itself, we had to check it by hand by going through each of the visualization figures and compare the final results.


## Data
The input file is a analyzed data from the analyze part of the thesis, which contains the identical column as mention in [input data](#input-data)

 
While the output is the Treemaps visulization figures in the form of HTML files and PDF files, each one of them generated for a particular visualization.

By running the main process it is also generated intermediate data:
* Spark, used to analize the parsed repositories, generates a CSV file with [packageName, className,methodName,mcrCategories,mcrTags] as columns and a _SUCCESS flag file for the general process.
* A "characterization" folder is also created, and its content are CSV files with [packageName,className,methodName,mcrCategories,mcrTags] as columns, these files are used in the main process to be able to visualize based on the characterization type and be able to group by dependance relationships when generating the visualizations.




